# Student-System-Database-with-GUI
This project is for CSCE-608 Texas A&amp;M. MySql is used for the database side and the GUI allows you to generate the database and random data.

#Installation:
1)	Latest .net framework
2)	MySQL workbench (probably optional) https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/
3)	MySQL Connector/NET 8.0.22 https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/net/
4)	Excel must be installed on your computer
What is explained above should allow you to run the .exe file on a Windows machine. .exe file patch: 
project1Submited\GUI\Student Management System\bin\Debug\Student Management System.exe

However, if this did not work, then using Visual Studio 2019 you can compile the project and run it without an issue since I have provided the project files.


# Project Description

The project presents a complete solution to connect to a MySQL server with user defined settings and it can establish the Student Management System. The software developed in this project can create its own database and it can populate the database with random but meaningful data for testing or evaluation purposes. The database stores student, professors, course and classes and student clubs, and how these relate to each other. For example, the database can help student find out the average grades from previous years and take the course of their interest in a semester where they have a suitable workload, this would help students plan their semesters better and become more successful.  The students can also see how professors grade the previous students and adjust their effort so that they achieve their expectations. Obviously, this student management system like all the existing solutions inform the students about their current grades, their performance in each class, the credit hours they have passed and all the credit hours they have taken. Moreover, the school administration can track all the student clubs, students involved with the clubs, and their level of involvement. This could be especially helpful for schools when they want to perform contact tracing in the days of COVID-19, since the students are very likely to spend time with other students in the clubs and with this tool they can easily see who is possibly affected and who is not. This Student Management System has an easy interface for people who are not tech savvy. Familiarity with Microsoft Windows should be enough for most users to get the most benefits out of all the data at their fingertip. Overall, Student Management System is a necessary tool for the schools, to keep track of all the information in a secure and safe manner.
While using a database for school’s information has many benefits, it is important to compare the database with more traditional solutions. Unlike paper which has served the humanity for many years, databases do not result in paper waste and are always accessible to multiple people without a need for duplication. These results in a greener world and obviously a more efficient working environment where data is available to all members of the school, so that they can make the best decisions. Also, unlike paper once the data becomes obsolete, removing information from databases is significantly easier than taking care of many paper documents containing personal information. To make it even easier, in this software you can remove information by either typing them one by one if something very specific must be deleted or you can use an interactive table to change larger portion of the information. You can as easily write or modify the tables so that the database remains updated, which is one of the major problems with more traditional solution, where normal users had to go through many complex steps to edit a single cell in a database.
If you are in doubt, this software has the capability to generate data in different sizes and magnitudes. For an accurate test you only need several numbers close to actual numbers in the school of your interest, in just few second you can test all the features and experience the latency with this database software. Overall, I hope this solution evolve over time to help students make wiser decisions about their education and future life. There is still many more features that can be added however they would require more time and care especially on the GUI end. SQL quires are very capable and very efficient, but on the GUI end many hours must be spent to make the program look better and easier to use.
